# ISTD Courses
Source code of ISTD courses, assignments, projects, etc.

* 50.001 -- Introduction to Information Systems and Programming
: This course is an introduction to the design and programming of information systems. Topics include algorithms, data structures, user interfaces and use of software libraries. Sample applications include Web-based systems, robot control, and 3D graphics.
* 50.002 -- Computational Structures
: This course introduces architecture of digital systems, emphasising structural principles common to a wide range of technologies. Topics include Multilevel implementation strategies; definition of new primitives (e.g., gates, instructions, procedures, and processes) and their mechanisation using lower-level elements. Analysis of potential concurrency; precedence constraints and performance measures; pipelined and multidimensional systems; instruction set design issues; architectural support for contemporary software structures.
* 50.003 -- Elements of Software Construction
: This course is an introduction to the fundamental principles and techniques of software construction that have greatest impact on practice. Topics include capturing the essence of a problem by recognizing and inventing suitable abstractions; key paradigms, including basic concepts of software design and their expression using notations from Unified Modeling Language (UML); concurrent programming, including programming with threads and processes, understanding concurrency problems like deadlock and data race, concurrent program testing, reasoning about concurrent programs using systematic methods and tools. This course includes exercises in software design, implementation and reasoning.
* 50.004 -- Introduction to Algorithms
: This is an introductory course to mathematical modeling of computational problems, as well as common algorithms, algorithmic paradigms, and data structures used to solve these problems. It emphasizes the relationship between algorithms and programming, and introduces basic performance measures and analysis techniques for these problems.
* 50.005 -- Computer System Engineering
: Topics on the engineering of computing and networking systems: design challenges; techniques for controlling complexity; operating systems and networking systems: performance; strong modularity; client-server; naming; security and privacy, atomicity and coordination of concurrent activities; user and end-to-end applications. Case studies of working systems and readings from the current literature provide comparisons and contrasts. Students will complete two design/implementation projects.
* 50.007 -- Machine Learning
: Machine learning is the study of algorithms that improve their performance at some task with experience. In this course, students will learn how machine learning has led to many innovative real-world applications. The students will also gain an in-depth understanding of a broad range of machine learning algorithms from basic to state-of-the-art, such as: naïve Bayes, logistic regression, neural networks, clustering, probabilistic graphical models, reinforcement learning and SVMs.
* 50.008 -- Database
: This course is designed to introduce students to the foundations of database systems, focusing on basics such as the relational data model, database and schema design, SQL, query processing, and transactions.

Classes will consist of lectures and discussions. The students will also be provided with lab practice of managing data using relational database management systems. A semester-long project is required, which is to apply the concepts and techniques learned in class in designing and implementing a simple database application (either a mobile app or a web app).
* 50.012 -- Networks
: This course will introduce the principles and practice of computer networking, with emphasis on the Internet. Students will learn concepts, principles, protocols, and applications of computer networks, including packet switching, layered architectures, TCP/IP, physical layer, error control, window flow control, local area networks (Ethernet, Token Ring; FDDI), network layer, congestion control, quality of service, multicast, network programming interfaces, networked applications.
* 50.020 -- Security
: This course will provide students with a basic appreciation and understanding of the underlying security issues and implications of the use of various networked systems and electronic devices. Topics to be covered include overview of information systems and devices in a global network environment; introduction to cybercrimes and security issues; threats to information systems and devices; concepts for confidentiality, integrity and availability; security solutions and technologies; web security and electronic payment models; encryption algorithms.
* 50.021 -- Artificial Intelligence
: Artificial intelligence (AI) is a rich field spanning formal systems for representing and processing symbolic information, computational models of human cognition, and a range of techniques for learning, planning and reasoning under uncertainty. In this course, students will gain an appreciation of what “artificial intelligence” means, and how it can be usefully applied to real-world problems. Students will learn the intricacies of state-space search and constraint programming. Through an in-depth treatment of knowledge representation via propositional and first-order logic, students will understand how expert knowledge can be fed into and be processed by modern computers. In addition, students will acquire skills in using planning algorithms to find solutions to optimization problems, and understand how to use probabilistic reasoning to draw inferences in uncertain environments.
* 50.033 -- Foundations of Game Design and Development
: This is an introductory course about the basic of game creation. This course provides an overview of different aspects of game development. Student will get in touch with C++ Programming (industry standard), starting with console application, then GUI games on various platform with graphics, dialog boxes, and user control. There are also basic overview of topics including game architecture, interface design, graphics for game, audio for game, prototyping and play testing. Students will be able to implement their creative gaming idea by using the latest gaming tools which are easy and readily usable.
